# OCIO Video

## 0. Portal

The Advanced Analytics Workspace is a one-stop shop for Data Science &
Analytics, designed for data exploration, machine learning training and
experimentation, and publication of production models and dashboards. Built on
open-source and open standards, the AAW super-charges the tools shared by the
broader research community, for fast, frictionless, and large-scale
collaboration between team members and research partners.

You can sign into our DAaaS portal with one click to discover and access the
Advanced Analytics Workspace tools like Kubeflow, as well as support materials
such as help documentation, our community Slack workspace, and even a YouTube
series of getting started videos.

## 1. Create Server

If you are a Statistics Canada employee, you can already create an AAW profile
and launch your first personal workspace in under three minutes. As an AAW user,
you get great flexibility in configuration and cost. You can create anything
from a small machine for exploration to monster configurations with multiple
CPUs, tonnes of memory, and even specialized hardware like GPUs tailored to
machine learning.

No matter the need, the AAW aims to provide you the tools and security you need
with a completely self-serve experience. You can go from concept to creation
without waiting on human intervention.

The AAW aims to bring all the platform's powers right to your finger-tips.
Whether you want to make just a quick plot, or train a machine learning model
across 3 GPUs, the AAW gives you self-serve access to all the tools you need.
Get your analyses started faster, and run experiments at a scale that was
previously unattainable.

## 2. JupyterLab

We offer a variety of workspaces tailored to particular types of analysis,
including JupyterLab, RStudio, and desktop-style experiences. When you choose
JupyterLab as your toolset, you get an interactive notebook environment for
Python, R, Julia where you can mix code, prose, and interactive visualizations.

You may have noticed both Kubeflow and JupyterLab are being displayed in French.
The flexibility of open-source gives AAW the freedom to add features like multi
language support to products that don't have it out of the box.

Working in the open, we can deliver crucial features like official languages
support. And we can contribute those features back to the community for all
Canadians, while meeting our own immediate needs in the process.

## 3. Desktop

Some great software isn't built for notebooks; it requires a desktop to run. For
these situations, the AAW offers desktop-style workspaces where you can run the
desktop applications you know and love.

Our desktops come preloaded with powerful analysis software like QGIS, RStudio,
a spreadsheet app, and even Visual Studio Code.

## 4. RStudio

If you're an avid R user, you'll find the familiar RStudio analysis suite
delivered to you directly in your browser. Explore your data, create analyses,
and use Shiny to create beautiful and interactive dashboards.

AAW also offers a Shiny server for you to publish your visualizations after
you're done perfecting them in your RStudio environment.

## 5. Kibana

Using Elastic Search and Kibana, create easy drag-and-drop business intelligence
dashboards, for to quickly and intuitively understand your datasource. Using
Elastic Search's high performance storage, your dashboards can provide insights
into huge amounts of unstructured data and still feel snappy and responsive to
the viewer.

This prototype of the SEDAR dashboard uses machine learning to process thousands
of public financial report PDFs, and a pipeline extracts and indexes the data
for the analysts in a simple and easy to use way.

The SEDAR database provides all these financial and business variables in a
discoverable and intuitive way, and allows users to find exactly what they need
quickly. Answers that now take seconds used to require flipping through the
pages of thousands of PDF documents.

## 6. Pipelines (Bandits)

Kubeflow Pipelines gives users the tools to automate data ingestion tasks, as
well as a way to scale up and track their experiments.

In the "Office Building Reopenings" project, nicknamed Bandit-Buildings, data
scientists created a Multi-Armed bandit simulator that took many hours to run.
By using Kubeflow Experiments, they were able to organize and coordinate their
experiment parameters, log the parameters and output, all in a scalable and
metadata driven way. In the end, they ran over 24,000 CPU-Hours of computations
in just over a week, and the experiment results were included in a report from
the Public Health Agency.

The same analysis performed on a single four-CPU server would have taken over
eight months to complete.

## 7. Contributors

In data analytics, collaboration is key. In the Advanced Analytics Workspace
it's simple to add collaborators to your project so that you can work together
with the same tools on the same data. Share notebooks and dashboards, and
co-create insights and results.

Sharing a workspace with a collaborator is as simple as adding their account to
your list of contributors. They can immediately see the new profile and begin
contributing to your project.

## 8. Kubecost

The Advanced Analytics Workspace and its users, alike, want visibility into the
resources that are being used at any given time, and the associated cost. AAW
provides cost management features that provide these insights in a visual way
for easy consumption. Cost information can be broken down by user, project, or
even resource type. Notifications can also be sent if a configurable budget
threshold is exceeded.

Higher level reports also provide a broader view of platform cost information,
which allows management to gain financial insights using a variety of filters
and breakdown structures.

## 9. Open-Source

We've chosen the open source tools that are already standards in academia and
industry â€“ tools which are familiar for users and reduce friction with our
partners. And in turn, we work in the open ourselves. Being a part of an open
community is something we care about, but it also benefits you, our user.

By going open, we can give you more for less.

- Fewer licencing fees means you can enjoy a lower cost service.
- And you could recreate and even modify the AAW in your own cloud environment,
  which limits your risk.

This is our competetive advantage. This is the Advanced Analytics Workspace.
